# ICVaultBox

# What it is

ICVaultBox is a secure data management solution built on the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) and leveraging the innovative vetkd library for encryption. It empowers users to encrypt and store any type of data – passwords, files, images, NFTs, audio, and more – in a decentralized manner, ensuring greater control and security compared to traditional storage methods.

# The problem

Centralized storage providers can be vulnerable to breaches or data leaks. Even with strong access controls, a compromise on their end could expose your sensitive information.

# The Solution: ICVaultBox

ICVaultBox offers a decentralized approach to data management, addressing the limitations of traditional methods:

- Decentralized Storage: Your encrypted data is not stored on a central server, minimizing the risk of a single point of failure.

- vetkd Encryption: ICVaultBox utilizes vetkd, a powerful library providing robust encryption for all your data.

- Symmetric Key Storage in Browser: For faster decryption, ICVaultBox securely stores the symmetric key within your browser's secure storage.
- Planned Browser Extension: A browser extension (under development) will seamlessly integrate with ICVaultBox, streamlining data management tasks.

# Key Features

- Decentralized Data Storage: Gain peace of mind knowing your data is not centralized and vulnerable to attack.
- Broad Data Support: Store passwords, files, images, NFTs, audio, and any other type of data securely.
- vetkd Encryption: Benefit from the strength and security of vetkd's encryption algorithms for all your data.
  Fast Decryption: Enjoy a smooth user experience with the symmetric key stored securely in your browser.
- Planned Automatic Data Detection: (In development) [web extension repo](https://github.com/Dunsin-cyber/web-extension) The upcoming browser extension will streamline data management by automatically detecting and offering to save various data types for you.

# Additional Notes

This README provides a high-level overview of ICVaultBox. More detailed documentation will be added as the project progresses.
Stay tuned for updates on the browser extension's development!

# Replicate Locally

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with ic_vault_box, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd ic_vault_box/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
